# REST API Service

## REST Architecture
REST APIs are resource-centric. They are oriented around nouns, and the actions are constrained by HTTP Verbs.
* Unique URI for each resource.
* Consistent use of HTTP Verbs and Status Codes.
* Self-describing: no foreknowledge required to traverse the domain and state graph.

### HTTP Status Codes
Uses semantic HTTP codes.

### HTTP Verbs

#### GET
Idempontent and safe (no changes to system). Get the resouce or collection of resources.

#### PUT
Idempontent. Replace (or create) the resouce or collection of resources - identifier specified by client.

#### POST
Create new resource - identifier generated by the service.

#### DELETE
Idempontent. Delete the resource or collection of resources. Can also be used for delete-like operations such as close, inactivate, and hide.

### Hypermedia as the Engine of State
Contractless application: actions and operations are discoverable with hypermedia. Clients navigate through the application state by the hypermedia provided by the service. Responses to requests for a resource include URIs (and other information to compose requests) to other resources, and actions available for the requested resource.
```xml
<Tasks>
  <TaskInfo Id="123" Status="Active">
    <link rel="self" href="/api/tasks/123" method="GET" />
    <link rel="users" href="/api/tasks/123/users" method="GET" />
    <link rel="history" href="/api/tasks/123/history" method="GET" />
    <link rel="complete" href="/api/tasks/123" method="DELETE" />
    <link rel="update" href="/api/tasks/123" method="PUT" />
  </TaskInfo>
</Tasks>
```

### Metadata
Collection+JSON or HAL are standards taht can be used to describe APIs.